Improve readme (#20)
CodelyTV/p2p-editor: README.md

<!-- LOGO -->
<p align="center">
  <a href="http://codely.tv">
    <img src="https://codely.tv/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/cropped-logo-codelyTV.png" width="192px" height="192px"/>
  </a>
</p>

<!-- TITLE -->
<h1 align="center">
  P2P editor
</h1>

<!-- BADGES -->
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/CodelyTV"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CodelyTV-OS-green.svg?style=flat-square" alt="codely.tv"/></a>
    <a href="http://pro.codely.tv"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CodelyTV-PRO-black.svg?style=flat-square" alt="CodelyTV Courses"/></a>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor"><img src="https://travis-ci.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor.svg?branch=master"/></a>
</p>

<!-- SUMMARY -->
<p align="center">
P2P code editor for live coding sessions that works in the browser.

> </p>

Reviewer: Add Call to actions:

Online demo - Roadmap (link to the wiki) - Contribute (link to the contribute section) - Stars welcomed

[Example](https://github.com/CodelyTV/cqrs-ddd-php-example/blob/master/README.md) ([example code](https://github.com/CodelyTV/cqrs-ddd-php-example/commit/61d2ac2687aedafb69079a131729c73cf7684821#diff-04c6e90faac2675aa89e2176d2eec7d8R24))

Author: how about this? (frikimeter 500º)

<!-- SUMMARY -->
<p align="center">
  P2P code editor for live coding sessions that works in the browser.
  <br />
  <br />
  This parallel universe is still very dark. If you want to make it brighter <a href="https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/stargazers"> Create a Star 🌟</a>
  <br />
  <br />
  <a href="#table-of-contents"><strong>🚀 Explore the universe »</strong></a>
  <br />
  <br />
  <a href="http://p2p-editor.codely.tv">Online demo</a>
  ·
  <a href="https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/wiki">Roadmap</a>
  ·
  <a href="#-contributing">Contribute</a>
</p>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
## 📜 Table of Contents

- [📜 Table of Contents](#%F0%9F%93%9C-table-of-contents)
- [💡 What does P2P Editor do?](#%F0%9F%92%A1-what-does-p2p-editor-do)
  - [How it works?](#how-it-works)
- [🤔 Why P2P?](#%F0%9F%A4%94-why-p2p)
  - [The good part](#the-good-part)
  - [The bad part](#the-bad-part)
- [🏗️ Architecture](#%F0%9F%8F%97%EF%B8%8F-architecture)
- [🚀 Environment setup](#%F0%9F%9A%80-environment-setup)
  - [🐳 Docker environment](#%F0%9F%90%B3-docker-environment)

>   - [🎰 Local environment](#%F0%9F%8E%B0-local-environment)

Reviewer: Offering support for the Docker environment setup I think is enough nowadays. Removing support for local development we'll not have to maintain also this approach 👼

[Example of environment setup section](https://github.com/CodelyTV/cqrs-ddd-php-example/blob/master/README.md#-environment-setup)

Author: Agree with that. I'll fix later, I'm lazy right now.

  - [✅ Run the tests](#%E2%9C%85-run-the-tests)
- [💻 Live demo](#%F0%9F%92%BB-live-demo)
- [ℹ️ About](#%E2%84%B9%EF%B8%8F-about)
- [🤝 Contributing](#%F0%9F%A4%9D-contributing)
- [⚖️ License](#%E2%9A%96%EF%B8%8F-license)

## 💡 What does P2P Editor do?

> P2P editor is a code editor that works in the browser which lets you share live coding sessions.

Reviewer: We could add something like "[…]. See it by yourself sharing a new session".

### How it works?

> You star a new session with an empty source code file and let other users join the session. All connected users will see all your code changes reflected in their read only editor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. [Open a P2P Editor session in your browser](http://p2p-editor.codely.tv)
2. Share your session URL with someone else (or even with yourself in another browser window 😬)
3. Start typing and enjoy the real time experience! It's like Google Docs, but for your code!
```

> The functionalities are limited for now, but we have a roadmap to make P2P editor awesome. If you want to get involved take a look of [Contributing](#-contributing) section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The functionalities are limited for now, but we have a [roadmap](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/wiki) and some [good first issues](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) to make P2P editor awesome. If you want to get involved take a look of [Contributing](#-contributing) section. 
```

## 🤔 Why P2P?

> We have remove centralized servers, so by doing this, we have the good and the bad of that:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have removed the need of having a centralized server where all the changes get saved. The communication is done from one peer (a connected user) to the other one. By doing this we have some benefits, but we also have to take into account the added complexity:
```

> ### The good part

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Benefits of P2P

```

- Direct communication: reduce latency and bandwidth.
- No servers: no cloud, no scaling, no deploy, no devops...
- No SasS:
  - Availability.
  - No usage restriction.
  - No unknown (malicious or not) usage of your data.

> ### The bad part

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Added complexities of being fully distributed

```

- Data consistency.
- Network partition / topology.
- Peer discovery and connection establishment.
- Authentication / Authorization.
- Security and privacy.

> We have a particular interest in P2P application development. You can read more in [About](#-about) section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We have a particular interest in P2P application development. You can read more in the [About](#-about) section.
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

![Arquitecture Diagram](assets/architecture_diagram.jpg)

> Parts of P2P editor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
P2P Editor building blocks:

```

- Code editor: [Ace](https://github.com/ajaxorg/ace)
- Database: append only log ([hypercore](https://github.com/mafintosh/hypercore))
- Communication: WebRTC RTCDataChannel ([webrtc-swarm](https://github.com/mafintosh/webrtc-swarm))
- Peer discovery: WebRTC signaling server ([signalhub](https://github.com/mafintosh/signalhub))
- Storage: RAM

> Workflow:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Workflow:

```

1. Peers are discovered via signaling server.
2. For each change made in the editor, a delta representing that change is appended to hypercore database.
3. Hypercore database is constantly replicating between all peers via WebRTC RTCDataChannel.
4. When a peer receives a delta it is applied to its editor instance.

> Data consistency: [Eventual consistency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eventual_consistency)

Reviewer: I don't know if this should go in the "Added complexities of being fully distributed" section instead in the workflow one 🤔

```suggestion
Data consistency: [Eventual consistency](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eventual_consistency)

```

Author: I think that we can omit this detail in the readme.

## 🚀 Environment setup

### 🐳 Docker environment

* Clone this repository: `git clone https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor`
* Move to your project folder: `cd p2p-editor`
* Copy the default environment variables: `cp .env.dist .env`
* Start the services: `docker-compose up -d`

> * Go to [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)

Reviewer: The `8000` port is nowadays quite common to be already mapped. Maybe we should go for something more weird (and less probable to collision with other apps) like the `8100` one

Author: [localhost:1936](https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Revoluci%C3%B3n_social_espa%C3%B1ola_de_1936) Ⓐ

just kidding 🤭

Author: I'll fix this later https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues/24

### 🎰 Local environment

* Clone this repository: `git clone https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor`
* Move to your project folder: `cd p2p-editor`
* Copy the default environment variables: `cp .env.dist .env`
* Install dependencies: `yarn install` or `npm install`
* Start dev server: `yarn start` or `npm start`
* Go to [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)

### ✅ Run the tests

> `yarn test` or `npm run test `

Reviewer: We should add how to run the test from inside the docker. [Example](https://github.com/CodelyTV/cqrs-ddd-php-example/commit/61d2ac2687aedafb69079a131729c73cf7684821#diff-04c6e90faac2675aa89e2176d2eec7d8R78)

Author: This is the first time I see this pattern of using Make in conjunction with docker. Cool!

For now i'll replace yarn/npm commands with the corresponding docker-compose command `docker-compose run p2p-editor test`.

Author: I've created an issue for this https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues/25

## 💻 Live demo

- To start a new live code session open [http://p2p-editor.codely.tv](http://p2p-editor.codely.tv).
- Share the URL with the users you want to join the session.
- Start editing the file.
 
That's all! All changes are instantly reflected in the connected peers editor.

Happy P2P coding!

## ℹ️ About

We started this project in the context of a learning process with the aim of continuing to learn about P2P and put into practice what we learned by building a useful P2P application.

During this process, all the learning resources that we found and consider useful are published in [awesome-p2p]("https://github.com/CodelyTV/awesome-p2p).

The initial implementation of P2P editor is based on [Mathias Buus](https://github.com/mafintosh) work. From here thank you very much for sharing so many free (libre) resources and knowledge.

P2P editor is a non profits free software supported by user contributions and CodelyTV.

## 🤝 Contributing

How you can contribute?

> - Giving feedback and reporting bugs.

Reviewer: Add "giving the repo a star"

- Getting involved in development resolving a [good first issue](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).

> - Sharing your knowledge by adding learning resources to [awesome-p2p]("https://github.com/CodelyTV/awesome-p2p).

Reviewer: Add "reporting bugs" and "suggesting new features" linking to the create new issue page

<!-- LOGO -->
<p align="center">
  <a href="http://codely.tv">
    <img src="https://codely.tv/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/cropped-logo-codelyTV.png" width="192px" height="192px"/>
  </a>
</p>

<!-- TITLE -->
<h1 align="center">
  P2P Editor
</h1>

<!-- BADGES -->
<p align="center">
    <a href="https://github.com/CodelyTV"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CodelyTV-OS-green.svg?style=flat-square" alt="codely.tv"/></a>
    <a href="http://pro.codely.tv"><img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/CodelyTV-PRO-black.svg?style=flat-square" alt="CodelyTV Courses"/></a>
    <a href="https://travis-ci.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor"><img src="https://travis-ci.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor.svg?branch=master"/></a>
</p>

<!-- SUMMARY -->
<p align="center">
  P2P code editor for live coding sessions that works in the browser.
  <br />
  <br />

>   This parallel universe is still very dark. If you want to make it brighter <a href="https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/stargazers"> Create a Star 🌟</a>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This parallel P2P universe is still very dark. <a href="https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/stargazers"> Create a Star</a> if you want to make it brighter  🌟
```

  ·
  <a href="https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/wiki">Roadmap</a>
  ·
  <a href="#-contributing">Contribute</a>
</p>

<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
## 📜 Table of Contents

- [💡 What does P2P Editor do?](#-what-does-p2p-editor-do)
- [🤔 Why P2P?](#-why-p2p)
  - [Benefits of P2P](#benefits-of-p2p)
  - [Added complexities of being fully distributed](#added-complexities-of-being-fully-distributed)
- [🏗️ Architecture](#-architecture)
- [🚀 Environment setup](#-environment-setup)
  - [🐳 Needed tools](#-needed-tools)
  - [🛠️ Environment configuration](#-environment-configuration)
  - [🌍 Application execution](#-application-execution)
  - [✅ Tests execution](#-tests-execution)
- [💻 Live demo](#-live-demo)
- [ℹ️ About](#-about)
- [🤝 Contributing](#-contributing)
- [⚖️ License](#-license)

## 💡 What does P2P Editor do?

P2P Editor is a code editor that works in the browser which lets you share live coding sessions. See it by yourself sharing a new session:

1. [Open a P2P Editor session in your browser](http://p2p-editor.codely.tv)
2. Share your session URL with someone else (or even with yourself in another browser window 😬)
3. Start typing and enjoy the real time experience!

> The functionalities are limited for now, but we have a [roadmap](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/wiki) and some [good first issues](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) to make P2P Editor awesome. If you want to get involved take a look of [Contributing](#-contributing) section. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The functionalities are limited for now, but we have a [roadmap](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/wiki) and some [good first issues](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-desc+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22) to make P2P Editor awesome. Take a look to the [Contributing](#-contributing) section if you want to get involved 🙌. 
```

## 🏗️ Architecture

![Architecture Diagram](assets/architecture_diagram.jpg)

P2P Editor building blocks:
- Code editor: [Ace](https://github.com/ajaxorg/ace)
- Database: append only log ([hypercore](https://github.com/mafintosh/hypercore))
- Communication: WebRTC RTCDataChannel ([webrtc-swarm](https://github.com/mafintosh/webrtc-swarm))
- Peer discovery: WebRTC signaling server ([signalhub](https://github.com/mafintosh/signalhub))
- Storage: RAM

Workflow:

1. Peers are discovered via signaling server.
2. For each change made in the editor, a delta representing that change is appended to hypercore database.
3. Hypercore database is constantly replicating between all peers via WebRTC RTCDataChannel.
4. When a peer receives a delta it is applied to its editor instance.

## 🚀 Environment setup

### 🐳 Needed tools

1. [Install Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started) 
2. Clone this project: `git clone https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor`
3. Move to the project folder: `cd p2p-editor`

### 🛠️ Environment configuration

1. Copy the default environment variables: `cp .env.dist .env`
2. Modify the environment variables if needed: `vim .env`

### 🌍 Application execution

> 1. Start the application with Docker Compose: `docker-compose up`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start the application with Docker Compose: `docker-compose up -d`
```

> 2. Go to [http://localhost:8000](http://localhost:8000)

Reviewer: Didn't we changed the default port to something more random to avoid collisions with common local development environments?

Suggested port: `3617` (the closest numbers to the `edit` word I can think of right now xD)

This would imply also:

* [ ] Modify the [Docker Compose P2P Editor port mapping](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L6)
* [ ] Modify the [Docker Compose Signalhub port mapping](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/blob/master/docker-compose.yml#L12)
* [ ] Modify the [default `SIGNALHUB_URL` environment variable value](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/blob/master/.env.dist#L1)

### ✅ Tests execution

1. Execute Unit tests: `docker-compose run p2p-editor test`

## 💻 Live demo

1. To start a new live code session open [http://p2p-editor.codely.tv](http://p2p-editor.codely.tv).
2. Share the URL with the users you want to join the session.
3. Start editing the file.
 
That's all! All changes are instantly reflected in the connected peers editor.

Happy P2P coding!

## ℹ️ About

> We started this project in the context of a learning process with the aim of continuing to learn about P2P and put into practice what we learned by building a useful P2P application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We started this project in the context of a learning process about P2P communications in a  Web environment. The purpose of P2P editor is to apply a _learn by doing_ approach where we can share our learnings with the community while building something useful.
```

> During this process, all the learning resources that we found and consider useful are published in [awesome-p2p]("https://github.com/CodelyTV/awesome-p2p).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We're publishing all the learning resources that we found useful in the [Awesome P2P](https://github.com/CodelyTV/awesome-p2p) repository. Feel free to check it out and add your favourite links too!
```

> The initial implementation of P2P Editor is based on [Mathias Buus](https://github.com/mafintosh) work. From here thank you very much for sharing so many free (libre) resources and knowledge.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The initial implementation of P2P Editor is based on [Mathias Buus](https://github.com/mafintosh) work. In case you read this, thank you very much for sharing so many free (libre) resources and knowledge 😊
```

P2P Editor is a non profits free software supported by user contributions and CodelyTV.

## 🤝 Contributing

How you can contribute?
- [Reporting bugs](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues/new).

> - Giving feedback and [suggesting new features](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues/new).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Providing feedback and [suggesting new features](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues/new).
```

- [Giving the repo a star](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/stargazers).

> - Getting involved in development resolving a [good first issue](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Getting involved in development resolving [issues labeled as `good first issue`](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).
```

- Adding learning resources to [awesome-p2p]("https://github.com/CodelyTV/awesome-p2p) repository.

> You can get an idea of the roadmap of P2P Editor looking at the [backlog](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues) and the [wiki](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/wiki).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can get an idea of the P2P Editor roadmap looking at the [backlog](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/issues) and the [wiki](https://github.com/CodelyTV/p2p-editor/wiki).
```

> ## ⚖️ License

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## ⚖️ License
```
